this is the new 2023 McLaren artura

finally McLaren announced this car more
than two years ago and it's only finally
now just going on sale but maybe it was
worth the wait because it has some
pretty amazing numbers
670 horsepower 0-60 in 2.6 seconds and a

top speed of more than 200 miles an hour
it also has a starting price around
240 thousand dollars and today I'm going
to review the new McLaren artura and
show you all of its quirks and features

before I get started be sure to check
out cars and bids which is my Enthusiast
car auction website for cool cars from
the modern era with free listings you
can list your cool car for free and
auction it on cars and bids and you
should because we've had some great
sales lately like this McLaren 720s
which sold for 260 thousand dollars this
fantastic Ferrari F430 which brought
just over a hundred thousand dollars and
this wonderful Lamborghini Gallardo
spider which sold for just under 115 000
if you're looking to buy or sell a cool
Enthusiast car from the modern era the
1980s and up cars and bids is the place
to do it with daily auctions great
selection and free listings check it out
at
carsandbids.com all right I'm going to
start the quirks and features of the
mighty McLaren artura with a little
overview of exactly what this is because
it might be confusing McLaren's had the
570s the 650s the 720 s and now there's
the artura completely different naming
directions so where does it fit in well
McLaren swears that this is not a
replacement for the 720s which has been
kind of their Flagship Supercar for the
last few years but the mid-engine exotic
sports car 720s just went out of
production and the mid-engine exotic
sports car artura has just arrived so
you do the math although actually I
suspect McLaren plans to come out with
another model kind of positioned higher
than the artura and that will be the
720s replacement and then this will be
positioned lower as sort of the entry
level model but I think if McLaren
pursues that strategy they're gonna have
a bit of a difficult time because the
numbers that this car puts down are
absolutely phenomenal so let's start
with the powertrain this has a twin
turbo hybrid V6 which is a big departure
for McLaren recently they've only had
V8s in their cars for the last decade
well now we got a plug-in hybrid V6 it's
totally different but again the numbers
are phenomenal one of them is weight the
V6 itself weighs about 110 pounds less
than the V8 which helps counteract some
of the weight that the plug-in hybrid
system adds but it's not just that like
I said
670 horsepower a massive figure also 530

pound-feet of torque resulting 0-60 in
2.6 seconds with a top speed of 205
miles an hour unbelievable numbers like
I said and again it kind of makes me
question that this isn't replacing the
720s those are verging on hyper car
numbers so how can McLaren possibly beat
those numbers with a forthcoming 720s
replacement I guess we'll find out now a
couple of interesting things worth
noting for one this is not McLaren's
first ever hybrid vehicle some exotic
brands are just starting hybrids
electrification McLaren's been doing it
for a while keep in mind even the P1 was
a plug-in hybrid but this is McLaren's
first ever series production plug-in
hybrid model so like a regular normal
car as opposed to a limited production
Ultra Car like the P1 the other
interesting thing about the artura is
it's not all that expensive now that
sounds like a crazy thing to say given
the starting price of this car is around
235
000 and with options I suspect most of
these are going to come in in the 260 to
290
000 range those are objectively crazy
numbers but compare it to Rivals the
Lamborghini Huracan starts around 250
000 so it's more expensive and that car
is entering its ninth or tenth model
year so it's getting old this brand new
car is cheaper the Ferrari 296 GTB
starts over three hundred thousand
dollars so even a well-equipped Arturo
won't hit the base price of a 296 GTB
and guess what to the artura is faster
than both of those cars the Huracan the
296 GTB are both tremendously fast but
this is faster at least in terms of
acceleration and it's also cheaper
that's kind of always been McLaren's
thing the value proposition among exotic
supercars and the arctura continues that
theme so next up let's talk artura
Crooks and features starting with
getting inside this is the key to a
McLaren art tour you can see it has
three buttons there's the lock button
which of course locks it there's the
trunk button which has an image of the
car that's actually shaped like the
Arturo which is kind of cool and then
there's the McLaren logo button which is
the unlock button you press the logo to
unlock the door because that begins your
McLaren experience once the car is
unlocked you walk up to it and the door
handle is here kind of at the back of
the front door you don't just pull it
though you stick your hand under there
you push a little rubber pad and then
you wait a second while the window drops
and then you can open the door upwards
take another look at that you push the
window drops then you can open the door
you can't just walk out of the car pull
the door open you have to wait for the
window to drop so that it can break the
seal with the body that's there to make
sure water doesn't get inside and the
window also has to open so that it can
clear the a-pillar as the door opens up
you can see it's kind of a tight
tolerance there and without that little
waiting period the window doesn't open
enough and it could smash the body and
break so that's what you're waiting for
anyway you climb inside scissor doors as
you can see opening upwards and proving
that this is in fact a super car but
anyway next up inside the Arturo you
will find quite a few interesting taking
quirks and features starting with well
the starter button which is right here
in the center bright red circle in the
middle of everything that's where you
start your McLaren now near the starter
button you have a couple of interesting
other buttons
DNR which is your gear selector d a push
down for drive or you push down for
reverse and N is neutral you will notice
there is no P for park that's because
you don't need one in this car put it in
neutral put the parking brake on or just
open the door and it happens
automatically and then you get out and
walk away there's no actual Park gear in
a modern McLaren and of course D and R
that's the only way these come no manual
transmission available it's an
eight-speed dual clutch automatic that
helps put the power to the ground next
up another interesting item in this car
is your drive mode switches which are
mounted on the top of the gauge cluster
you can see this one on the right is
labeled p with arrows up and down and
adjust your performance so like your
accelerator pedaled speed your shifting
speed and you could push it up or down
to change now the drive modes are pretty
much what you'd expect you have comfort
Sport and track a lot of exotic cars
have that or something similar but in
this car you also have an electric drive
mode believe it or not you can drive the
McLaren artura in pure electric mode for
around 11 miles just in case you want to
buy a Supercar and then drive it around
noiselessly now over on the other side
of the top of the gauge cluster you have
your other drive mode switch this one is
marked H it controls your handling your
suspension settings basically and here
again you can choose between Comfort
Sport and track by pressing up or down
on the switch next up other interesting
items in this interior for one getting
out you have this little door latch
switch on the door panel you pull on
that and it electronically releases the
door and then you can push it up the
rest of the way and climb out just in
case your battery dies while you're in
the car or the popper mechanism fails
you also have this backup mechanical
method which you can see is inside this
door pocket storage area you can pull on
that and mechanically open the door like
in most normal cars now interestingly
when the door opens up over on the
driver's side you can see some buttons
like underneath the door those are
unusual one of them turns on toe mode so
if you're going to tow this car you put
it in tow mode and I guess that makes it
easier to well tow the other one turns
off the interior motion sensor so when
you lock the doors in this car in most
cars there's a motion sensor and if it
detects movement the alarm will go off
if for whatever reason you want to turn
that off if you're parking the car on a
windy day with the windows down or you
don't want stuff blowing around setting
off your alarm you can turn that off
with that other button under the
driver's door by the way interesting to
see a door pocket storage area in a car
with doors that go up because if you put
something in there the door goes up it
will probably fall out but it's nice to
have that little extra practicality in
this car and in fact you have some
decent storage in here the center
console you can see is very thin but
open it up and you do have a little
storage compartment in there where you
can well store stuff you also have extra
storage behind the seats you can see
this carpeted shelf back here you can
put stuff on although there is a warning
label telling you not to do precisely
that but let's be honest you could if
you had to another interesting storage
compartment location is the front of the
seats there's a little pouch here where
you can stick little items in case you
want to store them maybe your license
registration other paperwork can go in
that little compartment you also have
little storage pockets on either side of
the gear selector buttons in the center
console not very large but big enough
for maybe like a pen and you have cup
holders in this car and in fact two of
them one sort of under the dashboard in
the back and another one right in the
middle between the seats cup holders in
a Supercar all of the this storage is
nice to have because you don't get a
glove box in the artura one storage
related drawback but you do have all the
rest of this stuff but anyway next up in
this interior another interesting item
is the infotainment screen which is
mounted vertically and kind of sticks
off the dashboard and it's angled
towards the driver you don't see too
many vertical infotainment screens Volvo
does it four dozen some of its Vehicles
Chrysler and some of its vehicles and
that's about it but anyway McLaren does
it in this car and actually this is a
surprisingly good infotainment system
which isn't something I'm used to saying
about supercars it's responsive to your
touch it does pretty much exactly what
you'd expect it to and it has some nice
features there's a navigation system
built into this infotainment which is
actually very easy to use also very
responsive pinch to zoom it's quite
simple and good for an exotic car
frankly for any car it's nice to see you
also can control ambient Lighting in
here so you can adjust the ambient
lighting color in the interior which is
something you often see in Luxury Cars
Mercedes-Benz well here it is in an
exotic sports car you have apple carplay
in this vehicle as well not wireless you
got to plug in your phone on a cord in
the center console but still car play in
an exotic car now with that said one
drawback of the infotainment system is
that it includes the climate controls
usually I prefer climate controls to be
physical buttons since you're kind of
pressing them all the time rather than
going into a menu and a screen but at
least here they've made it Charming you
can see the diagrams allow you to select
where the airflow is are race car
drivers not just generic people or parts
of an interior but little race car
drivers and you can tap them to direct
the air which adds to the fun of the
whole thing when you have something like
that I can kind of Overlook the climate
controls in the screen and you had the
nice feature of a top-down 360 degree
camera system which is really fantastic
to have especially in an a car you're
low your visibility lines aren't that
great you look at the camera system and
you can figure out exactly where you are
makes this car very easy to maneuver in
like a tight space in your garage with
your car collection you're moving stuff
around that camera is helpful and it's
particularly helpful in this car because
the backup camera is integrated into the
gauge cluster and that's fine but it's
not great in like hand over hand like
parallel parking because the steering
wheel is often blocking the backup
camera while you're backing up so it's
not the easiest thing to see it's nice
to have that 360 camera in the center to
supplement it also one other interesting
item worth noting in the infotainment
system seat memory is located in here
you go to driving positions and this is
where your seat memory is which is
actually kind of useful if you have like
a certain driving position for the race
track and another one for just normal
driving it could be nice to have seat
memory in your super car and this one
does but let's go back to that gauge
cluster for a second because there's a
lot of interesting things to talk about
with that for one thing it moves with
the steering wheel it's directly behind
the wheel and when you move the wheel up
or down for a better comfortable seating
position the cluster moves with it as
well which is pretty well designed
another cool feature of this
infotainment screen is that the left
portion of this screen can scroll
through various different important
items you might want to see like it'll
show you your phone your Bluetooth it'll
show you the media the track that you're
listening to right now it'll even show
you a navigation system map which is
very impressive you almost never see
that in the gauge clusters of exotic
cars but it's here in the artura I wish
you could do more full screen
configurability but having that
configurable left panel is better than
what I'd see in basically every other
exotic car here in the artura now over
on the right side of this gauge cluster
screen you can see two like bar graphs
the one on the right shows your fuel
range and the amount of fuel you have
left the one on the left shows your
battery range and the amount of battery
you have left the battery range is more
important in this car than you might
think in part because all reversing is
done with the electric motor and that
means if you run out of battery charge
you cannot reverse in the McLaren artura
yes that is true now fortunately as you
drive along this car charges its battery
and all of the drive modes will charge
to different levels interestingly you
can actually adjust where you want to
keep the charge if you're in track mode
this car makes sure to keep the battery
pretty much entirely charged so that it
always has access to its full power you
can see this little screen over on the
left actually shows this Arrow where the
charging will kick in if you're in
Comfort mode it won't kick in charging
until you're near the very bottom
depleting your battery just to give you
enough left in case you might have to
well reverse but that is a weird Quirk
of the artura for sure now despite all
of this this battery stuff one important
thing to mention is this car is not
really all that heavy it weighs in
around 3 400 34 50 pounds which makes it
lighter than the Lamborghini Huracan and
the Ferrari 296 GTB despite being a
plug-in hybrid with batteries and all
this electrical stuff it ends up lighter
than those cars which is quite
impressive and in addition to that
surprisingly low curb weight including
all the electrical and hybrid components
it also includes some pretty nice
luxuries for instance this car has
adaptive cruise control not just regular
cruise control but adaptive it'll slow
down and speed up with traffic like most
luxury cars in your relatively light
McLaren this particular car also has an
axle lifter so you press this button to
the left of the steering wheel and then
instantly your front end lifts up so you
can clear stuff nice to have but it adds
weight and yet it still doesn't make
this card too too heavy and next we move
on to the front trunk in the artura
which has a couple of interesting quirks
and features one is certainly getting in
two ways to access the front trunk you
can press the front trunk button on the
key fob which I've already showed you or
there's a button inside to the left of
the steering wheel near the axle lift
you can press that both of them will
open up the front trunk the cool thing
is in this car once the front trunk is
popped open you don't have a little
latch under here you have to press in
order to open it all the way you just
stick your hand in and open it up that's
different from basically every other
exotic sports car with a front trunk
where you got to kind of fiddle around
under here makes it easier to get into
your cargo area and once you're in here
you'll discover it's surprisingly large
there's decent space in this cargo
storage area where you can put a decent
amount of stuff luggage bags for a trip
if you want to take your Arturo on a
road trip somewhere this particular
artura already has a bunch of stuff and
here as you can see there is a fire
extinguisher there is a tire in inflator
kit there are the charging cables for
this car since it is a plug-in hybrid
and you have your car cover all that
stuff in here and there's still room for
a lot more as you can see decently
practical also worth pointing out there
is a little power outlet in here which
might strike you as curious or unusual
that's used to keep the car charged when
it's parked most people who have these
have a lot of special cars they don't
drive them all that often so you plug
the car into a battery tender keeps the
battery fresh so it doesn't die when you
want to use it kind of nice to see that
built into this car that is for the rear
of the arctura the cover for the engine
compartment well it doesn't open you're
not able to actually get back here and
open this engine compartment lid so you
can look at your glorious V6 that's how
it is in other McLaren models too the
only thing that opens back here is this
little flap that opens to allow you to
add fluids when necessary but that's all
the access you get to the powertrain in
this car best to leave that stuff to
professionals now despite that there are
still a few interesting quirks and
features back here an obvious one is
well all of the holes you can see a lot
of them on the rear lid back here
obviously these are here for heat
dissipation because the engine is under
here and it gets hot and you can see
even more of them on this massive rear
Grille that basically stretches the
entire width of the car again there to
get heat out of the engine bay and let
things breathe a little bit back here
now you can also see in the back you
have the exhaust mounted front and
center two of them right in the middle
pretty high up the exhausting the artura
and how does it sound it's now a V6 does
it sound good take a listen see what you
think
foreign
[Music]

ly we move on to a few exterior quirks
and features of the Arturo starting with
the design the style which I have to say
it's fine there's this general feeling
that all McLarens kind of look the same
and here McLaren comes out with a
totally new car totally new powertrain
totally knew everything and they make it
well look the same it definitely is
McLaren looking the air intake on the
side is shaped like all the other
McLaren models the general silhouette it
looks like a McLaren but it just doesn't
look special or different or crazy or
interesting frankly I think it looks
just a little generic and not well
daring enough but then again you make a
daring card people call it ugly so maybe
this is what they decided to do instead
now worth pointing out one interesting
thing about this car is there's two fuel
doors you can see one over on the
passenger side right here and then you
go to the driver's side and there's
another one which is of course the
charge port door because this is a
plug-in hybrid and so that's where you
charge up the battery and the other side
is where you actually fill it with fuel
the only other interesting exterior item
that I can see is that it's badged as
McLaren and then artura rather than just
saying the brand name like so many
exotic cars do this one says the model
also so you can be sure exactly which
McLaren you're looking at in case you're
confused the name of this car itself is
kind of unusual since Mclaren has done
so many numbers and letters 720s 675 LT
blah blah and now it's artura and the
badge shows that just to make sure you
know what you're looking at all right
driving the McLaren artura now this car
has been rather controversial for a few
reasons this thing is generally viewed
as a little generic which I don't think
most people care about if the rest of
the car can deliver but for the last two
years it hasn't McLaren announced this
car they kind of benchmarked the exotic
sports cars that existed two years ago
and then we didn't hear anything for the
last two years and it's like all right
where's the artura the answer is
apparently that the arctura is here
finally after such a long wait they have
delivered this car and it seems quite
impressive except of course for the
other controversial thing about this car
which is the V6 of V6 in a car like this
how could it possibly be well
all right I'm in Florida

let's make sure there's no police around
got up to the speed limit there
um
wow
that's fast you know I've never been one
of these oh it's a V6 so it doesn't
count kind of people the xj220 was a V6
the F40 was merely a V8 and of course we
know what happened with the new Ford GT
which has gotten a lot of complaints
from being only a V6 from people who
haven't really driven the car this is an
impressive vehicle a seriously
I mean this
that is immense speed
unbelievably quick just really really
really fast and so I think anybody who's
complaining about the V6 situation
you're just wrong it feels faster than
not only V8 McLarens in the past but
also other exotic supercars I've driven
them all Huracan et cetera et cetera
this is faster it feels faster it is
faster and then there's the steering and
handling I only got the chance to have
fun with this car for about 24 hours a
little longer uh but oh my God the
steering is just tremendous this is one
of the quickest cars to change direction
that I have ever been in when you move
the steering wheel even the littlest bit
it's just gone it is so precise so
incredibly incredibly fast it's
interesting because I just drove the
Ferrari 360 challenge stradale which was
like the most precise best handling car
of its era it's amazing in 20 years how
much further things have come it is hard
to believe cars can really get this much
more precise from the perspective of
steering field it just it darts around
in a way that is honestly difficult to
explain to people who have never
experienced a car like this now I want
to make the point here that I'm not
exactly McLaren's biggest fan I've
posted some videos talking about how
their cars all look the same how they
have way too many special models the
lineup is confusing all that stuff but
sitting here driving this car I am a fan
of this car regardless of the fact that
it's a McLaren or whatever it doesn't
this drives really well and it's even
more impressive when you consider that
the sticker price of this one is
probably about 260 270. a 296 GTB starts
like 320. huracan's base huracans are
still 250 like I said but really they're
primarily manufacturing crazy stos and
things like that that are all way way
crazier money four hundred thousand
dollars getting this car at this price
point is really impressive now like all
McLarens they will over produce this car
so resale value will not be strong and
they're going to start coming out with
special versions of this car basically
tomorrow and so that will also hurt the
resale of this particular one but
from a driving perspective not thinking
about the market nothing about the brand
name from a driving perspective It's
amazing And from a value perspective
it's tremendous and for a lot of people
that's just what they're looking for
plus something that looks cool which
this does this kind of delivers hypercar
performance at a non-hypercar price it
really is the bargain Supercar right now
and
it's fun to be behind the wheel of this
car not necessarily fun to suffer the
depreciation
um but this thing's awesome it just
drives
whoa
and so that's the new 2023 McLaren
artura I have made fun of McLaren openly
for how long it's taken them to get this
car to Market and rightfully so but now
that it's here it's pretty impressive
incredible car with an amazing Driving
Experience and some crazy numbers and
it's not really all that expensive when
you compare it to Rivals it's pretty
cool and now it's time to give the
McLaren artura a Doug score

and the Doug score is here 70 out of 100
which puts the McLaren artura here
against its Rivals the artura does well
equaling important new Rivals like the
Huracan sto and McLaren's own 765 LT but
it doesn't quite beat out the Ferrari f8
and 488 and the more well-rounded
Lamborghini Huracan Evo I really love
the artura but I'm a bit disappointed by
The Styling is it seems just a little
too generic and frankly the same goes
for the interior the performance is as
good as or better than basically every
car on this list but in this realm
people want style to back up the speed
and the artura is just a little short in
that department it's still an amazing
Supercar though and it's a lot of fun
especially at this price point
